# How-can-we-predict-the-success-of-a-movie-Predictive-Data-Analysis-
“How can we predict the success of a movie?” Our main goal with this project is to study different methods that can efficiently predict if a certain movie will be a success, based on its features. 

## Data description and research question

In this project, we will study how different deep and machine learning algorithms can be used to predict, analyse and retrieve useful information from a particular dataset while using exploratory data analysis methods to preprocess and clean the data. Different models will be further evaluated and compared, in order to understand which ones are more efficient and why.
To proceed with our project, we chose a dataset that can be accessed at https://github.com/cla-cif/movie-DB-2000s (as part of Kaggle's "The Movies Dataset" available at https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/rounakbanik/the-movies-dataset). This "the 2000s Movie Database" dataset can be described as a film dataset that contains movies released since the year 2000 to 2009.

The data dictionary shown below presents each variable along with its respective description and domain:

| Name               | Description                                                                 | Domain     |
|--------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------|
| Title              | Name of the movie                                                           | Nominal |
| Year               | Year the movie was released                                                 | Integer |
| Genres             | Genre of the movie                                                          | Nominal |
| Language           | Language spoken in the movie                                                | Nominal |
| Country            | Country responsible for the making of the movie                            | Nominal |
| Content_Rating     | Classification of the movie regarding the suitable demographic             | Nominal |
| Duration           | Length of the movie                                                         | Integer |
| Aspect_Ratio       | Describes the dimensions of the screen                                      | Float |
| Budget             | The cost required to make the movie                                         | Integer |
| Gross_Earnings     | The total revenue generated by the movie                                    | Integer |
| Director           | The director of the movie                                                   | Nominal |
| Actor1             | First actor of the movie cast                                               | Nominal |
| Actor2             | Second actor in the movie cast                                              | Nominal |
| Actor3             | Third actor in the movie cast                                               | Nominal |
| Reviews_by_Users   | The number of reviews by users                                              | Integer |
| Reviews_by_Critics | The number of reviews by critics                                            | Integer |
| IMDB_Score         | The IMDB score obtained by the movie                                        | Float |

## Exploratory data analysis

The EDA was performed so we could better understand how variables were related to each other, which would be essential to decide which of the variables would then be used as input and output for the tested machine and deep learning models.

Our research question focuses on studying the success of a movie, so we decided that variables such as “Gross_Earnings” and “IMDB_Score” would be the most suitable ones to consider as the output variable for the models, as both these variables represent an outcome or result measurement to assess the movie’s success.

we concluded that our model should have no more than 4 input variables, to avoid making it over complex and overfitting. So we chose our input variables based on their relation with the model’s output variable “Gross_Earnings”, prioritising the variables that presented a stronger and more meaningful relation with this one. At the same time, we decided not to include categorical columns, as all of these either showed too many categories or a particular category presented a much higher occurrence frequency than the other ones (low variance results), which ultimately would make its contribution to the model meaningless. This being said, variables such as “Duration”, “Budget”, “Reviews_by_Users” and “IMDB_Score” were the ones we believed to be more suitable for the model’s input.



## Machine learning prediction

The Decision Tree model developed was trained, while also using the “anova” method for the regression. It’s important to note that no tree pruning was performed. The following results were produced:

## Author Contribution Statement

Leonardo Pina found the data, Rohith Srinivas did the data cleaning, Ikleel Nabi aided in performing expert/manual-based imputation (from credible sources). Ikleel Nabi, Leonardo Pina, Dua Asghar Mughal, Fiona Morgan. and Rohith Srinivas. performed the exploratory data analysis. Ikleel Nabi implemented the PCA & DBSCAN

Leonardo Pina built the decision tree ML model and the DANN DL model. Rohith Srinivas built the Neural Network ML model and the CNN DL model. Ikleel Nabi built the Random Forest ML model and the DANN DL model. Dua Asghar Mughal built the Neural Network ML model and the DANN DL model. Fiona Morgan built the Support Vector Machine ML model and the CNN DL model.

